# Elliptic_Curve_Cryptography


* Elliptic Curve
** Ellipse
- The equation $\frac{x^2}{a^2} + \frac{y^2}{b^2} = 1$ defines an ellipse.

** Elliptic Curve
- An elliptic curve (over a field k) is a smooth projective curve of genus 1 (defined over k) with a distinguished (k-rational) point.
- Every elliptic curve with real coefficients can be put in the standard form
  + $y^2 = x^3 + Ax + B$
- Requirement of smoothness
  + $4A^3 + 27 B^2 \ne 0$
[[../figures/ec.png]]

** Rational Points
- Let $E$ be an elliptic curve over $Q$.
- If $P$ and $Q$ are two rational points on $E$, then the line $\overline{PQ}$ intersects $E$ in a third rational point $R$.

** Group Law
- The group $E(Q)$ is a finitely generated abelian group.
*** addition
- Three points on a line sum to zero.
  - Zero is the point at infinity.
[[../figures/ec_add.svg]]

*** Identity Element
- The point at infinity is the identity element 0.
*** Inverse
- The inverse of $P = (x : y)$ is the point $−P = (x : −y)$.
*** Commutativity
- $P + Q$ = $Q + P$.
*** Associativity
- $P + (Q + R)$ = $(P + Q) + R$
*** Scalar Multiplication
- $nP = P + · · · + P$ for any positive n.
- $0P = 0$.
- $(−n)P = −nP$.
** The discrete log problem
- Problem: Given a point $P \in E(\mathbb{F}_q)$ and $Q = nP$, determine $n$.
- The best known algorithm for solving the discrete log problem in $E(\mathbb{F}_q)$ takes time $\Omega(\sqrt{q})$, which is fully exponential in $log(q)$.
- This allows cryptographic systems based on the elliptic curve discrete log problem to use key sizes that are much smaller than other systems.
- However, there is no proof that the elliptic curve discrete log problem is hard.
** Subgroups of Elliptic Curve Groups
- In the discrete log setting, we selected a generator $g$ and computed $g_0$, $g_1$, $\ldots$ mod $p$.
- This group generated by the generator had an order that divided the order of the parent group by Lagrange’s Theorem.
- In Elliptic Curves we can select a point P which is like a generator and
compute $0P$, $P$, $2P$, $\ldots$ mod $p$, called a Base Point.
** Reducing elliptic curves over Q modulo p
- Let $p$ be a prime that does not divide the discriminant $\Delta(E) = −16(4A^3 + 27B^2)$.
- If we reduce A and B modulo p, we obtain an elliptic curve $E_p := E \bmod p$

* Elliptic Curve Cryptography
** Diffie-Hellman Key Exchange
- Let $E/\mathbb{F}_p$ be an elliptic curve with a point $P \in E(\mathbb{F}_p)$.


* Footnotes
https://math.mit.edu/classes/18.783/2017/Lecture1.pdf
https://course.ece.cmu.edu/~ece733/lectures/21-intro-ecc.pdf

